---
title: "Continual Learning in Cross-Modal Retrieval"
collection: publications
# permalink: 
# excerpt: 
date: 2021-04-19
venue: 'CVPR 2021 CLVision workshop'
paperurl: 'https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2021W/CLVision/html/Wang_Continual_Learning_in_Cross-Modal_Retrieval_CVPRW_2021_paper.html'
# citation: '@InProceedings{Yu_2020_CVPR,
# author = {Yu, Lu and Twardowski, Bartlomiej and Liu, Xialei and Herranz, Luis and Wang, Kai and Cheng, Yongmei and Jui, Shangling and Weijer, Joost van de},
# title = {Semantic Drift Compensation for Class-Incremental Learning},
# booktitle = {Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR)},
# month = {June},
# year = {2020}
# }'
---
Multimodal representations and continual learning are two areas closely related to human intelligence. The former considers the learning of shared representation spaces where information from different modalities can be compared and integrated (we focus on cross-modal retrieval between language and visual representations). The latter studies how to prevent forgetting a previously learned task when learning a new one. While humans excel in these two aspects, deep neural networks are still quite limited. In this paper, we propose a combination of both problems into a continual cross-modal retrieval setting, where we study how the catastrophic interference caused by new tasks impacts the embedding spaces and their cross-modal alignment required for effective retrieval. We propose a general framework that decouples the training, indexing and querying stages. We also identify and study different factors that may lead to forgetting, and propose tools to alleviate it. We found that the indexing stage pays an important role and that simply avoiding reindexing the database with updated embedding networks can lead to significant gains. We evaluated our methods in two image-text retrieval datasets, obtaining significant gains with respect to the fine tuning baseline.

[Paper link](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2021W/CLVision/html/Wang_Continual_Learning_in_Cross-Modal_Retrieval_CVPRW_2021_paper.html)

<!-- Recommended citation: Your Name, You. (2010). "Paper Title Number 2." <i>Journal 1</i>. 1(2). -->